Deprecate unit testing framework and simplify types (#903)
Concordium/concordium.github.io: source/mainnet/smart-contracts/guides/migrate-contracts.rst

.. _migrate-contracts-for-std-9:

==============================================
Migrate contracts for ``concordium-std`` 9.0.0
==============================================

> With the |concordium_std|_ version ``9.0.0`` release, writing and reading smart contracts is easier than ever before.

Reviewer: The version should be updated.

The new version of the standard library reduces the need for generics and traits in your init and receive methods.
These generics and traits were there to support testing with the |test_infrastructure|_, which has been deprecated in favor of the |concordium-smart-contract-testing|_ library.

This guide shows you how to migrate your contract code to use the simpler concrete types and use fewer generics.

.. note::

>    You should only migrate your contract code if you are also ready to migrate all your tests to use the |concordium-smart-contract-testing|_ library.

Reviewer: It's not exactly **all** your tests. Only those that invoke entrypoints directly. Can we make that distinction here please?

   ) -> InitResult<State> { todo!() }

Migrating ``receive`` methods
=============================

To migrate a typical ``receive`` method you must change the following:

- Remove the generic parameter ``<S: HasStateApi>`` on the receive method
- Replace the trait ``&impl HasReceiveContext`` with the concrete type ``&ReceiveContext``
- Replace the trait ``&impl HasHost<..>`` with the concrete type ``&Host``
- Remove the generic parameter ``StateApiType = S`` on the ``Host``

Here is an example:

.. code-block:: rust
   :emphasize-lines: 10-12

   /// Before
   #[receive(contract = "my_contract", name = "my_receive")]
   fn receive_before<S: HasStateApi>(
       ctx: &impl HasReceiveContext,
       host: &impl HasHost<State, StateApiType = S>,
   ) -> ReceiveResult<MyReturnValue> { todo!() }

   /// After
   #[receive(contract = "my_contract", name = "my_receive")]
   fn receive_after(           // `<S: HasStateApi>` removed
       ctx: &ReceiveContext,   // `impl` and `Has` removed
       host: &Host<State>,     // `impl Has` and `, StateApiType = S removed
   ) -> ReceiveResult<MyReturnValue> { todo!() }

Migrating advanced state types
==============================

> If your contract state directly, or indirectly, contains one or more advanced state types, i.e. |StateMap|_, |StateSet|_, or |StateBox|_, then you also need to make a small adjustment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your contract state directly, or indirectly, contains one or more advanced state types, i.e., |StateMap|_, |StateSet|_, or |StateBox|_, then you also need to make a small adjustment.
```

> The advanced state types are generic over not only the types stored, fx the keys and values in a map, but also over a type that implements the |HasStateApi|_ trait.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The advanced state types are generic over not only the types stored, such as the keys and values in a map but also over a type that implements the |HasStateApi|_ trait.
```

   }

Reference material for migrating types and tests
================================================

The examples above show how to migrate most contracts, but for advanced contracts, there may be more types to migrate.
The list below shows how to achieve that.
It also includes types already described above:

- ``&impl HasInitContext`` becomes ``&InitContext``
- ``&impl HasReceiveContext`` becomes ``&ReceiveContext``
- ``&mut StateBuilder<S>`` becomes ``&mut StateBuilder``
- ``&impl HasHost<MyState, StateApiType = S>`` becomes ``&Host<MyState>``
- ``&mut impl HasHost<MyState, StateApiType = S>`` becomes ``&mut Host<MyState>``
- When using the ``low_level`` attribute:

  - On inits: ``&mut impl HasStateApi`` becomes ``&mut StateApi``
  - On receives: ``&mut impl Host<S>`` becomes ``&mut LowLevelHost``

- ``struct MyState<S> { my_map: StateMap<_,_, S> }`` becomes ``struct MyState<S = StateApi> { my_map: StateMap<_, _, S> }``
- ``&impl HasCryptoPrimitives`` becomes ``&CryptoPrimitives``
- ``&impl HasChainMetadata`` becomes ``&ChainMetadata``
- ``&mut impl HasLogger`` becomes ``&mut Logger``

To migrate your tests, read the how-to guide :ref:`integration-test-contract`.

> You can also refer to the `commit <https://github.com/Concordium/concordium-rust-smart-contracts/commit/d26aabae4b0714412cec4347d7ca5b09c8994c0e>`_ where the example contracts were rewritten.

Reviewer: Just make sure we don't rebase or otherwise destroy this commit.

Would it make more sense to link to the PR instead?

Author: The PR seemed like the safer choice.
